---
title: "Teachers and Mentors"
date: "2022-09-05"
type: "article"
published: true
keywords: "teachers,mentors,learnings,school,college,mission rnd,rnd,peri,kc,sir,aravind,ball,raghava,satyajeet,ram,satyanarayana"
description: "A writing dedicated to all the teachers and mentors who are reason for what I am today. :D"
tags: "philosophy,learning"
banner: "./teachersday.jpg"
technologies: ""
---

It's been a long while since I wrote any blog or worked continuously on any side-project. But today I feel like writing this and it was always on my mind for the last 2 years. So, I thought of writing this as a first step to re-write my daily routine and to check off items in my list that are there from a long time.

It is **Teacher's Day** today and I always wanted to dedicate a writing to all those who directly or indirectly taught me various things in the course of my life. I'm always thankful for what I am today. This particular position that I am in today is somehow due to the impact that various people have had on me. Thanks to all my **teachers/mentors**. There are a lot of things I learned from various people but there are some striking qualities that I _imitated/learned/assimilated_ from a few of them. This writing is a special dedication to all of them and I want to list what all I learned from them. I think it would be better if I go in chronological order on how they has an impact on my life and how I changed eventually to become a better person.

Starting with Primary School - I was considered to be a dumb student, at least as per the marks sheet which is the final deciding factor to judge a student in the Indian Education System :P. That is when I gradually ended up talking to my first teacher Mr. **K. Satyanarayana** who brought a drastic change in me by encouraging and pushing me to study better. If you're interested in something then the fundamentals of that topic are well known to you and you enjoy exploring it, this is what I believe and he was the one who built the basics strong for my math and a reason for my special interest towards math and problem solving.

Next is definitely one of the youngest teachers who taught me Mr. **J. B. Ram**. Probably he is just like an elder brother to me in terms of age but he was the one who pushed me further more. He always said that if you don't question about something you will never learn about it well and if you think you understood something then you must be in a place to answer anything about it. That was the point where I started to explore things and questioning stuff I don't know. This quality is much needed for a person who wants to learn things by himself. I should say that he is definitely the first one to indirectly encourage me to go towards self learning which is much required for any person in my opinion. I should definitely share an incident that happened, I remember that one day he was teaching some concepts in Maths and that concept was from the third chapter (assume I don't exactly remember) and I was trying to solve something that is from fourth chapter by sitting in the last bench. He saw that I was writing something in the notes while he was teaching. He asked the person beside me about what I was doing, just to make sure I'm not doing anything that is not supposed to be done in that class. The fellow beside me had a glance and complained that I was solving problems that are not yet taught (in a tone that I was doing something wrong). Ram sir came to me to have a look at what I was doing and, I was a bit frightened to what he would say. He had look at my notes and said, "Good, that is how a curious student should be. But never do this in class, do it in your free time or you can even come to me so we can do it together". He also told my fellow mate that there is nothing wrong with what I was doing and his tone of complaint is not necessary. That was the moment I learned that if you are curious enough then there will always be a person who will guide you.

By the time I was in High School. I had to move back to my hometown and I was already missing both the previously mentioned teachers. I had a feeling that I would never get someone who would encourage me like that and who would guide me in the way they used to do. I was lucky enough to find Mr. **Satyajeet Rokad** who definitely was a great guide for me. He was more of an elder friend than a teacher to me. I am very glad that I could finally find someone who can resonate with me and guide me. Until I met him all my education was to gather information and put it out in the examinations to get good rank. But it all changed after I met him. There is a popular quote that says, "Knowing about something is not knowledge, it is just information. Information when understood and interconnected will become knowledge". He was the one who inculcated that thought in me. Instead of just gathering information he used to insist us to form knowledge base from that. In most of the schools in the area I live they only evaluate and give better graders for your answers to questions in exams if they are almost same to what is available in books. So it all feels like copy writing with a photographic memory. But Stayajeet was the one who used to discourage people who does that, he always use to encourage on answers for questions which are in their own words of their understanding and logically correct no matter the length of the answer. This all led me to become a good self learner.

After High School and till graduation I didn't find a teacher from whom I could learn something that changed my life drastically. Then [Mission RnD](http://missionrnd.com/) happened, which I should say has changed my life in many ways. I found great teachers, mentors and  ambitious friends over there. I found **Peri Sir and KC Sir** there. If I had to write what I learned from each of them and what I learned from all the people from Mission RnD then it would become a mini series of blog posts. In short I would say that I got better at my skills and better at looking at a problem from a different perspective, though it is a math/coding/real life problem. KC always made us think beyond what we could already do. He comes with hard hitting realities that enlighten you. For example you can a couple of views for a problem say, bird's eye view, straight forward view, blah blah blah but there comes a KC view :D from which you always seems to find the problem very easy and interesting to solve. He reinforces self learning, conceptual learning, and many other important things with his talks. And to talk about Peri Sir, his teachings are always peculiar (so are KC's) they are fun and always have an inner meaning which is deeper when you listen to the same class again and again, that could be the reason why we and our seniors rush to his classes in the name of assisting him when he is teaching our juniors. There is definitely a lot to learn from him but I always feel like I wish I could attend more of his classes in person. Ethics, Values, Character, Discipline are something that I learned from him (though I'm not completely following discipline now, which I feel bad about). Recently one of my friends, Hari said, "Discipline is something we lack in our day to day life or at least we should have a good discipline in our work life. That is what I learned from Peri sir and Americans during my masters". I definitely agree with that, we are not completely badly disciplined but we are not at the level of what we wanted to be. I should really work on this.

Here comes my transition to learning from Mentors after Teachers. One day KC introduced a nerdy guy in our class who was supposed to teach us the basics of React.js. After the class, KC said that the guy's name is **Aravind Balla** and he is currently switching to a remote job, also added that he is one of his favorites. That was when I had a hook to that moment and I started learning what a remote job is and who this guy that KC spoke about. I ended up following Aravind on what he did to end up as a good Engineer working for a remote startup. Luckily the fate was so good that I ended up being a colleague to him and a good friend cum mentor. I then came across this https://www.instagram.com/p/B3thXqCljSN/ . After which I started looking for people who can indirectly mentor me and then I found **Raghava** (full name Sai Raghava Acharya indeed an Acharya) who is a friend of Aravind, another mentor that I will never forget. Also, I found mentors in my childhood friends **Sai Peddiwar, Murali etc.,** I don't deny the fact that the absence of these people would have affected my life in a very drastic way. I have learned a lot from each of them and I reciprocate them.

Finally the most underrated teacher of my life my mother who is responsible for my self learning behavior which is a quality that I got from here and my father who literally taught me the meaning of famous dialogues "[Viluvale Aasthi](https://translate.google.com/?sl=te&tl=en&text=Viluvale%20Aasthi&op=translate&hl=en)" even before that dialogue was out.

I couldn't mention everyone but the above mentioned are definitely the ones who brought great changes in me to become a better person. On a final note, all I want to say is that there are a lot of people who influenced me who had an impact on me and that is the reason why I am here today and I am glad for that. I want to end this by saying that we can find a lot of people from which you can learn in enormous amounts, you just have to be curious and keen to find them, that's it.
